
Find jobs
Company reviews
Find salaries
Upload your resume
Sign in
Employers / Post Job
Start of main content
Career Guide
Finding a job
Interviewing
Pay & salary
Search articles
Interviewing
How To Answer “Tell Me About Yourself” in a Job Interview
How To Answer “Tell Me About Yourself” in a Job Interview
By Indeed Editorial Team

Updated November 7, 2022 | Published January 11, 2018


The Indeed Editorial Team comprises a diverse and talented team of writers, researchers and subject matter experts equipped with Indeed's data and insights to deliver useful tips to help guide your career journey.


Related: Tell Me About Yourself: Top 6 Example Answers for a Job Interview

This video showcases six examples of how to respond when someone says, “Tell me about yourself," during an interview.

Open-ended interview questions or prompts like "Tell me about yourself" are frequently asked at the beginning of in-person, phone or video interviews to get the conversation started. These questions are likely to pop up at every stage of the interview process—from phone screen to final rounds. It's natural to be thrown by their ambiguity and it can be a challenge to identify what the interviewer wants to know.

In this article, we offer tips on answering "Tell me about yourself" interview questions and provide detailed "tell me about yourself" sample answers.

Why employers ask "Tell me about yourself"
A person in a wheelchair wearing a low ponytail smiles shakes the hand of another person whose back is to the camera
"Tell me about yourself" questions are common starting points to ease both you and the interviewer into the interview. It allows the interviewer to get a summary of your background and skills, giving them insight into what experience and qualifications you think are most relevant to the position you're interviewing for.

It's also not lost on employers that although it's a common interview question, it still tends to fluster or stump candidates. By answering this well, you set the tone as someone who is confident, good under pressure and attentive to the position's qualifications.

Some interviewers might approach this question as an icebreaker by using your response to spark casual conversation to get to know you better. In contrast, others may move directly into other interview questions after you respond.

Related: 23 Things To Say in an Interview
Variations of "Tell me about yourself"
Interviewers may ask "Tell me about yourself" in various versions, including:  

I have your resume in front of me but tell me more about yourself.
Take me through your resume.
I'd love to learn more about your journey.
Tell me a little bit more about your background.
Describe yourself.
Tell me something about yourself that's not on your resume.
FAILED
Image description
Planning your answer
It can be hard to get started crafting your response even for common interview questions. To keep you on track, here are a few questions to ask yourself as you brainstorm ways to respond and structure your answer:

What qualities make you a great fit for this position?
Think of what makes you stand out as a job applicant for this role. Perhaps it's your years of experience or some highly desired specialization, training or technical skills. Review the job description closely and note ways that you exceed the requirements.

Why are you interested in the company or the industry?
After you've spent time researching the company and the industry, you should have a better sense of the mission, goals and trends impacting the industry.

Do these align with the professional goals you've set for yourself?
What do you like and respect about the company as a whole?
What excites you about the future of the industry?
As you start building your resume, tie together similarities among your professional goals, the company's future vision and industry trends you feel are especially important.

What positive traits will serve you well in this role?
For example, have friends or colleagues described you as especially organized? Curious? Entrepreneurial? Generous? Think about how you think of yourself or how others see you. Then, consider recent examples from your life when you embodied that characteristic.

Is there something unique about your background?
As we've mentioned, this is one of the most common interview questions. Try to think of something that will hook the interviewer. For example, saying something like, "I've been building computers since I was 8 years old," when applying for a developer role is likely to make an interviewer's ears perk up.

How to answer "Tell me about yourself"
How you respond to "Tell me about yourself" can set the tone for the rest of the interview. When you practice your answer, you want to tell a great story about yourself that you can share in two minutes or less. In your response, do the following:

1. Mention experiences and successes as they relate to job
Begin by rereading the job description. Take note of your required skills and identify recent actions that demonstrate them (review the STAR method to practice telling great stories in your interviews). Ideally, it would be best to draw primarily from recent professional experience; however, volunteer work can also support your narrative while demonstrating a commitment to your community.

2. Consider how your current job relates to the job you're seeking
Is it a more senior role? If so, explain how you are taking on more responsibilities in your current position. If you are making a lateral transition to a role with different skills, describe how your existing skills translate into the new position.

3. Focus on strengths and abilities supported with examples
When you start building the script of each example, focus on details and outcomes that you can quantify if possible. For example, stating that you "improved customer service" is less impactful than "increased customer service response rates each quarter by 10% to 15%." If you don't have the exact information, estimate a realistic value.

4. Highlight your personality to break the ice
Since "Tell me about yourself" is about getting to know you, it's a good idea to share your personality with your interviewer—but not personal details. You may want to briefly mention hobbies that demonstrate intellectual development and/or community engagement (e.g., reading, music, sports league, volunteering) or those that showcase personal discipline and achievement (e.g., learning a new skill, training for a half marathon). Discussing personal interests is a good way to wrap up your response while maintaining a professional tone.

Related: How To Describe Your Personality in a Job Interview
5. Format your response
For your response to be clear and concise, you'll want to make sure you organize your answer following a format or formula. There are two common formulas you may consider:

Present, past and future 
Past, present and future
Both of these formulas work for your response, but you may choose one based on the roles from your experience that are most relevant to the position you're seeking. For example, if your most recent role highlights many of the skills and qualifications required for the role you're seeking, you may want to lead with the present. However, if you're making a career transition and your past experience is more closely related to the role than your current position, you may want to lead with your past.

Example answers to "Tell me about yourself"
Sometimes seeing an example can be helpful, though each person's "tell me about yourself" answer will be different. Below are a few short scripts showing how this question can highlight someone's strengths supported by successful results in less than two minutes:

Example 1
"I began my career in retail management, but a few years ago, I was drawn to the health care space. I've always been skilled at bringing people together and working toward common goals. My experience successfully leading teams and managing stores led me to consider administration, and I've been building a career as a driven health administrator for the last four years.

"In my current role at XYZ Medical Center, the efficiency of the office has been a personal focus, especially concerning patient outcomes. I set and oversee goals related to department budget and patient volume. Last year, I worked with our IT department to implement a communication system for scheduling procedures and protocols to ensure that all departments were adequately staffed. Our new online scheduling portal increased communication efficiency by 20%. 

"To stay informed about their ongoing concerns, I hold regular meetings with physicians, nurses and other health care staff. In my role, I also manage marketing and advertising efforts on behalf of the center. I've been really enjoying that part of my work and I'm especially interested in bringing the experience I've gained as well as my commitment to efficiency to the team at ABC Health. 

"Outside the office, I'm an avid reader and love to hike. On weekends, you might find me at the local bookstore or exploring hiking trails in the area."

Example 2
"I've been passionate about design since I was a kid. My parents remodeled their house when I was in high school and allowed me to play an active role in the interior design plans. I knew then that I wanted to pursue interior design as my career. I studied interior design at Savannah College of Art and Design and graduated four years ago.

"Since college, I've worked at an interior design firm in Savannah, Georgia. During my time there, I've been able to build my portfolio by designing both residential and commercial spaces. My experience at the firm has built up my proficiencies in building and cutting-edge technologies and allowed me to build strong relationships with local suppliers. The most rewarding part of my job has been working in Savannah's historic buildings. This experience has familiarized me with best-in-class building preservation.

"Moving forward, I would love to work at a design firm like yours that specializes in the design and preservation of historical buildings. I believe my experience and passion for preservation will allow me to be a great asset to your design team."

Example 3
"Currently, I work at XYZ Restaurant as a hostess. I've been there for just over two years. My responsibilities include greeting and seating customers, assessing wait times, fulfilling to-go orders and answering the phones. I love the lively and busy environment of XYZ Restaurant—we often have Friday and Saturday wait times of one hour or more.

"Before working at XYZ Restaurant, I worked in retail as a floor associate for a year. This role developed my customer service skills as I consistently assisted customers in the store. It also equipped me with the ability to work in a team environment.

"I am looking to further develop my customer service and problem-solving skills as a hostess in a restaurant environment. I am interested in your restaurant specifically as it has a great reputation for delivering first-in-class customer service to your patrons while being in a lively and dynamic environment."

Fundamentally, "Tell me about yourself" really boils down to "What do you want the interviewer to remember about you?" Answering this opening question effectively gives you the power to make a good first impression and structure the rest of the interview to your benefit.

Related: List of Character Traits To Use While Interviewing
Additional tips for answering "Tell me about yourself"
Here are some more tips to help you answer "Tell me about yourself" in an interview:

Your first impression matters. You want to make a good impression and get the job. The hiring manager will likely remember you after the interview, possibly setting you apart from other candidates.
Tailor your answer to the role and company. Research the job description and the company so you can keep answers work-related.
Keep it professional. Avoid slang or uncommon terms to ensure the interviewer understands your points.
Communicate with passion. Share your enthusiasm for the position with the interviewer.
Don't ramble. Keep your answers concise and to the point. Aim for responses that last about 30 seconds from start to finish.
Practice, but don't memorize. You want to feel comfortable with your answers without appearing overprepared or stiff.
Keep it positive. An interview is not the place to discuss a past employer in a negative way.
Are you looking for a job now?
Related interview questions
Here are some resources to help you prepare for other common interview questions:

Interview Question: "Why Do You Want to Work Here?"
Interview Techniques To Ace Your Next Interview
Interview Question: Describe Your Current Job Responsibilities
Interview Question: "What Skills Can You Bring to the Job?"
Interview Question: "Why Are You Interested in This Position?"
How To Introduce Yourself in an Interview [Video + Transcript]
Interview Hacks: Definition, Benefits and Examples
What To Do When You Can't Answer an Interview Question (Plus Tips)

Related: WARNING! Tell Me About Yourself Interview: Bad Answers to AVOID

In this video, Jenn shares the best strategy for answering “Tell me about yourself” by avoiding these top five mistakes.


Is this article helpful?
Explore your next job opportunity on Indeed
Indeed Career Services
Salary Calculator
See your personalized pay range
Indeed Resume
Get noticed by employers
Company Reviews
Access millions of company reviews
Interview help
Get interview-ready with our best tips
Resume samples
Kick start your search with templates
Instant resume report
Scan your resume to see quick tips
Explore more articles
42 Loss Prevention Interview Questions (With Sample Answers)
How To Prepare for On-the-Spot Interviews
12 Ext JS Interview Questions (With Example Answers)
How To Conduct a Job Interview
8 PeopleSoft Integration Broker Interview Questions (With Tips)
33 Common Bank Teller Interview Questions
35 Salesforce Admininstrator Interview Questions (With Tips)
40 Quality Assurance Specialist Interview Questions (With Example Answers)
7 Top SDLC Interview Questions and Sample Answers
38 Nursing Home Administrator Interview Questions (With Sample Answers)
7 Receptionist Interview Questions and Answers to Help You Prepare
105 WordPress Interview Questions (With Sample Answers)
© 2022 Indeed · 6433 Champion Grandview Way Building 1, Austin, TX 78750
Cookies — Privacy — Security — Terms — Accessibility at Indeed — Privacy Center — Contact us — Your Privacy Choices 